In this directory, you will find some example use cases of the TIAToolbox functionalities in the form of Jupyter Notebooks. All of these notebooks are designed and maintained to run on Colab and Kaggle platforms (unless otherwise stated) but you can run them on your own system as well. In the first cell of each example notebook, there are links to open the notebook in Google Colab and Kaggle. Simply clicking on one of these links opens that notebook on the selected platform. Each notebook contains all the information needed to run the example remotely on Colab or Kaggle. All that you need is a local computer at your fingertips, with a standard browser connected to the Internet. The local computer does not even need a programming language to be installed — all the crucial resources are provided at the remote site. To run the notebook on other platforms, such as your own computer, set up your Python environment, as explained in the `installation guide <https://tia-toolbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html>`_.

We explain here the structure of the examples directory and briefly describe our notebooks. (Except for technical minutiae, the words _folder_ and _directory_ are interchangeable.) The examples directory includes general notebooks explaining different functionalities/modules incorporated in TIAToolbox. Most of these notebooks are written with less advanced users in mind—some familiarity with Python is assumed—but the capabilities they demonstrate would also be useful to more advanced users.

The example directory contains two subdirectories called ``full-pipelines`` and ``inference-pipelines`` that include examples of using TIAToolbox in training of neural networks or inference of WSIs for high-level CPath applications, such as patient survival prediction and MSI status prediction from H&E whole slide images.

Many of the notebooks will run on a standard desktop computer using only CPU computation. Some notebooks would take too long to run without a GPU: when a GPU is preferable, this is mentioned in the notebook. If requested, Colab and Kaggle do provide GPU support, but free-of-charge GPU use on Colab and Kaggle is strictly limited. For this reason, a few notebooks are not provided with Colab or Kaggle badges.
